CONGRATS! You achieved 9.5/10 pts!
 
1a) 0.5pts Nice. However, you could have integrated the keyword "final" somehow
into your answer ;)
 
1b) 0.5pts Correct. Please provide an example next time. You can find one in
our solutions. BTW: Shared state does not necessarily mean "guarded action".
 
1c) 1pts NICE! And you know what's even nicer? Your reference to the Amdahl's
Law! Nice thought! And what can you expect out of nice thoughts? Right, a BONUS
x2! :D
 
1d) 0.5pts Correct. We elaborated a bit more on this one, so please still go
over our solution on this one.
 
1e) 0.5pts Correct. Although we targeted more at deadlocks and nested monitor
lockouts. So please have a look at our solution.
 
1f) 0.5pts PERFECT!
 
 
2) 2pts NICE! Please be aware that your solution still needs the additional two
lines from the exercise sheet to work. ;)
 
 
3a) 0.5pts That's a nasty answer, and I'm sure you are aware of it. That's the
reason why you formulated it in a way I have to interpret your answer ;) I give
you this one, because you were creative in rephrasing statements ;). But PLEASE
read this: You reported i is element of range [0,9]. That is maybe correct from
a technical standpoint, although the checks could/should be performed before
the actual variable changes to 9 (in the state diagram representation you see
no state holding a legit i=9 state, just the error state -> you even won't have
any info about the variable; that's just for the creation of the graph). In
addition, we were asking from a conceptual standpoint, and then it's quite
clear that a safety property that limits the variable i to be within [0,8] does
not allow the value to be 9. :)
 
3b) 0.5pts Correct.  3c) 0.5pts Again: Correct.
 
3d) 0.5pts And once again: Correct. :)
 
 
4) 2pts Your solution doesn't wait during an add() / remove() as requested (but
is using balking :). The synchronization mechanism is basic and the performance
low, but it works. Please don't use the terms "front" / "rear" for queues, use
"head" / "tail" instead. :) And no, you won't get a bonus for "hi there pascal"
in your code, nice try! HAHA :D (Just googled squarepants myself.... :)
