https://media.giphy.com/media/12BsLpSspuwW1q/giphy.gif
 
 
IMMEASURABLE HUGE CONGRATS! You achieved 11.5/10 pts!
 
1a) 1pts You provided a VERY nice analogy with the grocery store. Had to smile.
For such things you earn, of course, a BONUS x2! :D
 
1b) 0.5pts Absolutely correct. Please keep in mind that you not profoundly
answered the "what are condition objects" part, but rather "what they provide".
This would make a difference in a real exam. ;) So please still have a quick
glimpse at our solution.
 
1c) 1pts Exactly what I wrote back to so many students! You are the first one
recognizing this detail! Many of them were just referring to statelessness, but
this is just true when you look on the high-level code. Our solution leads to
this direction, though. For this I'll give you another x2 BONUS! :D
 
1d) 0.5pts Exactly! Just to provide you a comprehensive answer: the main
difference between permits and semaphores is the naming convention of their
methods.
 
 
2a) 1pts Nice!
 
2b) 1pts Nice! Nevertheless, I found a minor issue: you don't need the static
keyword in your fibonacci method. In general, one could say the less static in
the code the better the code will scale (keywords maintainability,
concurrency). As a rule of thumb, you should avoid static whenever possible. :)
 
2c) 1pts Again: Nice!
 
 
3) 2pts Perfect! You believe that you don't need the synchronized block, but
that's not true. You need the two blocks synchronized, because both threads can
be in the aforementioned block at the same time, as soon as the threads have
different runtimes and the queue has a size > 1. Just verified it for you by
myself: B1AB2Napoleon got a yellowEgg (thread B was manipulating buf within the
semaphores, then thread B did the same, followed by thread B finishing his buf
modifications). You won't see much impact in the output, as the output is not
really parsed or counted.
 
 
4a) 0.5pts Nice! However you could have mentioned that your CPU has 4 logical
cores :)
 
4b) 1pts Nice to hear that. 48 runs, quite a number! You should receive a small
compensation for your efforts: BONUS x2 for you! :D I'm really interested in
your setup, as every other student got much worse results. Did you use the
Oracle VM? Windows, Mac or Linux? x86 or x64 OS? Did you use a virtual machine?
 
4c) 0.5pts Correct. It's not just the synchronization overhead, but also the
thread maintenance overhead.
 
4d) 0.5pts Nice! BTW: It's not just the synchronization overhead, but also the
thread maintenance overhead.
 
4e) 0.5pts PERFECT!
 
4f) 0.5pts PERFECT!
